Data sharing is a professional responsibility.
While policies and mandates can motivate data sharing, they should not be the sole reason
we share our research data.
As researchers, we should view data sharing as a core professional and ethical responsibility,
not just as a checkbox for grant applications or journal submissions, and certainly not
simply because it's mandated by policymakers.
Sharing data contributes directly to the advancement of open science.
It increases the visibility and impact of our work, allows others to build upon it,
and ensures that research outcomes extend beyond individual publications.
Ultimately, data sharing is part of conducting responsible, transparent, and collaborative
science.